# Styled components

[styled components website](https://styled-components.com/)

1. Delete any css files that were generated by `create-react-app`
2. Install the package: `npm i --save styled-components`

NOTES: 
- recommended to install the VScode extension: vscode-styled-components. 
- styled components uses SCSS

## How does styled components work?

Without this library, we would create a Component.css file for every Component we need to style.

Import the library: `import styled from 'styled-components`

The styled object is an identifier for the HTML element we want to style. If we want to style a button:

```
export const Button = styled.button`
  width: 200px;
  background-color: red;
`
```

All of the styling is placed between two backticks. We export the Button component so we can use them in other files. Then import the component in other files:
`import { Button } from './components/Button.js'`


Let's say we want 3 buttons: red, green and blue. The height and width is the same for all 3, only the colour changes. Instead of copy pasting the code snipper above and changing the colour, we can do it in a more modular way. 

We can accept props inside the button styles, for the background colour.
```
export const Button = styled.button`
  width: 200px;
  background-color: ${(props) => props.backgroundColor};
`
```

To pass in the props in the parent component of Button: 
```
<div className="App">
  <Button backgroundColor="red">red button</Button>
  <Button backgroundColor="blue">blue button</Button>
</div>
```


When using styled components, almost every HTML element will have to be a component if we want to style it- even invisible div tags. 

If we want to create a container for the buttons in App.js, we can create a file called `container.style.js` and style it: 

```
export const AppContainer = styled.div`
  width: 100vw;
  height: 100vh;
`
```

In App.js, we can replace the div with a className of "App" with the styled AppContainer:
```
<AppContainer>
  <Button backgroundColor="red">red button</Button>
  <Button backgroundColor="blue">blue button</Button>
</AppContainer>
```


Add a hover effect to the Button component:  

```
export const Button = styled.button`
  width: 200px;
  background-color: ${(props) => props.backgroundColor};

  &:hover {
    color: pink;
  }
`;
```

Style the text inside the Button component:

```
export const ButtonLabel = styled.label`
  font-size: 25px;
  color: white;
`;
```

How can we change the colour of this ButtonLabel when we hover on the Button, which is a different component? 


```
export const Button = styled.button`
  // styles

  &:hover {
    color: pink;

    & label {
      color: green;
    }
  }
`;
```

This works since ButtonLabel is a child of the Button component.


## Styling components that have logic

The previous examples were just applying styles to components that did not have logic tied to them. How can we style a component that requires logic?

Let's create a new react component in a new file: `Button.js`

```
export default function Button({ buttonLabel }) {
  return (
    <button>{ buttonLabel }</button>
  )
}
```
The buttonLabel is passed as a prop. There is no logic yet here, but this Button is a normal react component, not a styled component. We want to style this the way we defined thet styled component for button. 

We can do this by importing this new Button component into our Button styles `Button.style.js`.
Then instead of `styled.button`, we can pass the actual Button we created like:

```
export const Button = styled(Button)`
  width: 200px;
  background-color: ${(props) => props.backgroundColor};
`;
```


Make sure to change the name of the styled component Button into something else to avoid a naming clash. Ex. StyledButton.

In App.js: 
```
<AppContainer>
  <StyledButton buttonLabel="click here" backgroundColor="red">red button</StyledButton>
</AppContainer>
```

This will not work yet - the styled are not being applied to the button. This is because we need to have a className prop passed into the Button react component: 


```
export default function Button({ className, buttonLabel }) {
  return (
    <button className={className} >{ buttonLabel }</button>
  )
}
```

## creating global styles

What is we want to style the body of the html element, or things that aren't actually components. 
We could create a file called `GlobalStyles.style.js`.

```
import {createGlobalStyle } from 'styled-components'

export const GlobalStyles = createGlobalStyles`
  body {
    background-color: pink;
    margin: 0px;
    padding: 0px;
  }
`;
```

Then in App.js: 

`import { GlobalStyles } from './GlobalStyles.style'`

To apply the styles, we can just add it as a self-cloding tag inside the AppContainer:

```
<AppContainer>
  <GlobalStyles />
</AppContainer>
```

## using CSS variables with styled components

In a file that uses the styled components library: 

```

const primary-color = 'blue';
const white = '#fffff';

const Button = styled.button`
  color: ${primary-color};
  background-color: ${white};
`
```

If we want to reuse the variables in many files, we can modularise the code by having a separate file only for CSS variables: 

```
const colorVars = {
  primary-color: 'blue',
  white: '#fffff',
};

module.exports = { colorVars };
```

Here all of the colour variables are properties of a colorVars object, which is exported. To use the variables in other files, just import the object: 

```
import { colorVars } from './css-variables';

const Button = styled.button`
  color: ${colorVars.primary-color};
  background-color: ${colorVars.white};
`
```
